Method handles also give you access to the fields of a class.
So suppose we have the same Person class with a private
field of type String called name,
and we created a nameReader MethodHandle using the same
pattern as the one we saw a few minutes ago.
We can invoke this method handle, passing the person object as parameter,
and it will return the value of the field directly read from the field
without going through the getter of that method.
And if we have a nameWriter method handle opened on that field in write mode,
we can do the same.
Call the invoke method on that nameWriter,
pass the person as a parameter, and the value,
here, in this example, John, that we want to set for that field.
This is going to work,
but a MethodHandle only gives you access to non-private members of a class.
Odds are that the methods you are going to invoke
are public so everything is fine,
but the field you want to read or write are going to be private.
So this is most probably here that you will see this exception,
this nasty exception,
telling you that this MethodHandle cannot access private fields.
There are two patterns to overcome this problem.
The first one is the one you need to use in Java 7 and 8,
and there is another one starting with Java 9 that
we are going to see in a minute.
So the starting point of the first one is the field object itself.
You get the Field object from the Person class,
which is not great because if you want to use MethodHandle,
it's precisely to get the performances offered by the MethodHandle
API and not the one offered by the Reflection API,
but there is no other solution.
You make this field accessible by calling the setAccessible
method and passing true as a parameter,
and then you use this unreflect getter method from the lookup object,
passing this accessible field as a parameter.
This is going to give you a MethodHandle,
and you can use this MethodHandle to read the value
of the private field directly.
And the same pattern also exists if you want to get write access to that field.
You call the unreflectWriter method on this lookup object,
pass the field as a parameter,
and the MethodHandle you get will be able to write
the value to that private field.
Those two patterns based on the use of the unreflectReader
and unreflectWriter are the only solution to overcome this
problem in Java 7 and 8.
Starting with Java 9, we have a much cleaner solution,
a much cleaner pattern, which is the following.
What you need to create is a private lookup object with
this special static factory method from the MethodHandles
class called privateLookupIn.
This method takes two arguments,
the class you want to introspect and the lookup object you previously created.
And this private lookup object is a regular lookup object
with more access to the Person class because it's created
really on the Person class only.
If you invoke the findGetter on this privateLookup object,
it will create a MethodHandle with private access to
the write field of the Person class.
So now if you try to read that field using that particular MethodHandle,
it will work.
You will not have the exception anymore,
and the same goes for the private write access.
You can use the findSetter method on this privateLookup
object and the MethodHandle object you will get has private
write access to this name field.
So those are the patterns offered by the MethodHandle API,
both to invoke a method and to read or write a field.
And remember, you have this particular behavior towards a private member.
It should not be a problem for methods because most of the time,
the methods you are going to invoke are public methods,
but it may be a problem with fields because usually,
the fields you want to access using Reflection based on MethodHandles are private fields.